This lesson is a brief introduction to the Fourier Transform.
The Fourier Transform is an extremely deep mathematical concept
that ties into many different disciplines.
But these next couple lessons will teach you how to use it as a tool
to accomplish many practical tasks.
We'll not be going into any theory at all,
in fact, you won't see a single equation in these lessons.
The goal here is instead to just convey some intuition about this concept,
and while the strong theoretical understanding is important,
it's outside the scope of this class.
You can definitely learn more by looking at the further resources section.
Before we can understand the Fourier Transform,
we need to go into this concept of adding sinusoids together.
So we'll create two sinusoids, one at two hertz,
and one at three hertz, and we'll plot them along with their sum.
The sum is just the element-wise addition of each point in the sinusoids.
So when they're both high,
the sum is high,
and when they're both low, the sum is low.
When one is high and the other is low,
and sum is somewhere around zero.
So what the Fourier Transform tells us is that,
any signal can be represented as a sum of sinusoids.
At first this makes no sense.
What's so special about sinusoids,
that gives them this property.
To understand that, we need to go into the theory of the Fourier Transform.
So instead, I'll just try to show it to you with a demo.
For this demo, we're going to look at
a real accelerometer signal from a wrist wearable, while someone is jogging.
So here we have the original accelerometer signal up at the top.
Below that, we have our approximate signal that we get by summing together sinusoids.
Then below that we have them plotted together so we can visually compare them.
As we add more sinusoids,
we can see that the approximate signal starts to
look closer and closer to our original accelerometer signal.
Once we get to more than 100 sinusoids,
we can't really notice any difference between
our approximate signal and the original one.
So this is basically a demonstration that Fourier wasn't lying to us when he
told us any signal can be represented as a sum of sinusoids.
In fact, the specific frequencies of the sinusoids that make up
any signal will give us important information that we
can use when we build algorithms to process that signal.